## dockerctl image



### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for image
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --base-path string   For example: /v1.41 (default "/v1.41")
      --config string      config file path
      --debug              output debug logs
      --dry-run            do not send the request to server
      --hostname string    hostname of the service (default "localhost")
      --scheme string      Choose from: [http https] (default "http")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [dockerctl](dockerctl.md)	 - 
* [dockerctl image BuildPrune](dockerctl_image_BuildPrune.md)	 - 
* [dockerctl image ImageBuild](dockerctl_image_ImageBuild.md)	 - Build an image from a tar archive with a `Dockerfile` in it.

The `Dockerfile` specifies how the image is built from the tar archive. It is typically in the archive's root, but can be at a different path or have a different name by specifying the `dockerfile` parameter. [See the `Dockerfile` reference for more information](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).

The Docker daemon performs a preliminary validation of the `Dockerfile` before starting the build, and returns an error if the syntax is incorrect. After that, each instruction is run one-by-one until the ID of the new image is output.

The build is canceled if the client drops the connection by quitting or being killed.

* [dockerctl image ImageCommit](dockerctl_image_ImageCommit.md)	 - 
* [dockerctl image ImageCreate](dockerctl_image_ImageCreate.md)	 - Create an image by either pulling it from a registry or importing it.
* [dockerctl image ImageDelete](dockerctl_image_ImageDelete.md)	 - Remove an image, along with any untagged parent images that were
referenced by that image.

Images can't be removed if they have descendant images, are being
used by a running container or are being used by a build.

* [dockerctl image ImageGet](dockerctl_image_ImageGet.md)	 - Get a tarball containing all images and metadata for a repository.

If `name` is a specific name and tag (e.g. `ubuntu:latest`), then only that image (and its parents) are returned. If `name` is an image ID, similarly only that image (and its parents) are returned, but with the exclusion of the `repositories` file in the tarball, as there were no image names referenced.

### Image tarball format

An image tarball contains one directory per image layer (named using its long ID), each containing these files:

- `VERSION`: currently `1.0` - the file format version
- `json`: detailed layer information, similar to `docker inspect layer_id`
- `layer.tar`: A tarfile containing the filesystem changes in this layer

The `layer.tar` file contains `aufs` style `.wh..wh.aufs` files and directories for storing attribute changes and deletions.

If the tarball defines a repository, the tarball should also include a `repositories` file at the root that contains a list of repository and tag names mapped to layer IDs.

```json
{
  "hello-world": {
    "latest": "565a9d68a73f6706862bfe8409a7f659776d4d60a8d096eb4a3cbce6999cc2a1"
  }
}
```

* [dockerctl image ImageGetAll](dockerctl_image_ImageGetAll.md)	 - Get a tarball containing all images and metadata for several image repositories.

For each value of the `names` parameter: if it is a specific name and tag (e.g. `ubuntu:latest`), then only that image (and its parents) are returned; if it is an image ID, similarly only that image (and its parents) are returned and there would be no names referenced in the 'repositories' file for this image ID.

For details on the format, see [the export image endpoint](#operation/ImageGet).

* [dockerctl image ImageHistory](dockerctl_image_ImageHistory.md)	 - Return parent layers of an image.
* [dockerctl image ImageInspect](dockerctl_image_ImageInspect.md)	 - Return low-level information about an image.
* [dockerctl image ImageList](dockerctl_image_ImageList.md)	 - Returns a list of images on the server. Note that it uses a different, smaller representation of an image than inspecting a single image.
* [dockerctl image ImageLoad](dockerctl_image_ImageLoad.md)	 - Load a set of images and tags into a repository.

For details on the format, see [the export image endpoint](#operation/ImageGet).

* [dockerctl image ImagePrune](dockerctl_image_ImagePrune.md)	 - 
* [dockerctl image ImagePush](dockerctl_image_ImagePush.md)	 - Push an image to a registry.

If you wish to push an image on to a private registry, that image must already have a tag which references the registry. For example, `registry.example.com/myimage:latest`.

The push is cancelled if the HTTP connection is closed.

* [dockerctl image ImageSearch](dockerctl_image_ImageSearch.md)	 - Search for an image on Docker Hub.
* [dockerctl image ImageTag](dockerctl_image_ImageTag.md)	 - Tag an image so that it becomes part of a repository.

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 7-Nov-2025
